---
order: 2
path: "/why-is-it-ethically-wrong/"
title: "Why is it ethically wrong?"
subtitle: "Explain using various ethical dimensions"
intro: "In any ethical dimensions, hate comments cannot be ethically right regardless of the consequence and circumtance. Here are some questions that I want you to consider and my thoughts."
---



# Consequentialism
<blockquote class="column-span">
  Of all the things a person might do at any given moment, the morally right action is the one with the best overall consequences.
</blockquote>

Consequentialism empahsizes the **consequences** of the action. Basically, if the consequences of the actions is **beneficial and avoids the worst consequence**, the actions is morally right. <br/>

Based on Consequentialism, here are some questions I want you to think about to find out if posting have comments are right or wrong: 
>i. What are the possibly consequences of posting hate comments on social media?
<br/>
>ii. What is the beneficial and worst consequences of the actions?
<br/>
>iii. Is it morally right or wrong?

**MY THOUGHTS**
<br/>
Social Media is full of posts people expressing their feelings or sharing their day to day lives with other users, and people who see that post often leave comments to the post. According to a study, there are various reasons for leaving comments. Benevolent comments are to encourage, for self-satisfaction, or to feel some sense of unity with the society. On the other hand, malicious comments are to resolve a feeling of dissatisfaction, to attack others, or to release their stress. Based on the research, people who post hate comments **express their feelings and release stress** by doing so [1]. But what about people who receive those comments? As I mentioned in the introduction video and introduction page, a lot of people **suffer from hate comments and even chose to commit suicide**.
<br/>
We can easily think of these two possible consequences of posting hate comments on social media. Which of those two is the beneficial consequence of the actions, and which one is the worst ? **Obviously, expressing feelings and releasing stress would be the beneficial consequence and people suffering from it would be the worst consequence**.
<br/>Based on the consequentialism, Can say leaving hate comments is a morally right action. **NO, because as long as hate comment exists, both beneficial and worst consequences will go together and we can never get to the best overall consequences.**

# Deontology & Virtue Ethics
<blockquote class="column-span">
  Deontology: Some kinds of action are wrong or right in themselves, regardless of the consequences.<br/>
  Virtue Ethics: A right act is the action a virtuous person would do in the same circumstances.<br/>
  <cite>BBC</cite>
</blockquote>

Deontology is very different from consequentialism. While consequentialism considers an action is a morally right action based on the consequence, deontology considers **if action is identified right** and deontology has it's **moral rules**. Therefore, based on deontology, even if an action brings the best consequence, if the action itself is a morally wrong action it cannot be the right act. Then, who and how to decide whether the action is right or wrong? Here comes virtue ethics. Virtue ethics argues that **a virtuous person will do a morally right action as a human**. Thus, if an action that a virtuous person does is the right action. Then, who and how to decide whether the person is virtuous or not?
<br/>

Based on Deontology and Virtue Ethics, here are some questions I want you to think about to find out if posting have comments are right or wrong: :
>i. Is posting hate comment considered a morally right action?
<br/>
>ii. Do virtuous people post hate comments?
<br/>
>iii. Is it morally right or wrong?

**MY THOUGHTS**
<br/>
The definition of hate comment is "A type of speech that takes place online, generally social media or the internet, with **the purpose of attacking a person or a group based on attributes** [3]." Every single person who posts hate comments will have different reasons for it, but regardless of personal reason, the internal purpose of the hate comment is attacking others. We, as a human, know that attacking others, either physically or verbally, is not morally right action. Hate comment is a verbal weapon that can hurt others, so it cannot be the right act.
<br/>
When we think of a virtuous person, we think that they will not do any behavior that might hurt or attack someone. The virtuous person acts virtuously, if the action is not virtuous the person will not behave like that. This might sound silly but connecting the idea of deontology and virtue ethics, **leaving hate comment is an action that virtuous person will not do because they know that it is not morally right** and **since virtuous people do not post hate comments, posting hate comments is no morally right actions**. 
<br/>
Considering both deontological and virtue ethical perspective, **posting hate comments is a morally wrong action**.