---
order: 3
path: "/whose-responsibility-is-it/"
title: "Whose responsibility is it?"
subtitle: "Professional Responsibility and User's Responsibility"
intro: ""
---

<blockquote class="column-span">
  <p>"Engineers, in the fulfillment of their professiona duties, shall sold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public."</p>

  <cite>NSPE Code of Ethics for Engineers</cite>
</blockquote>

# User's Responsibility
When technology is made, engineers expect responsibility from the users. Engineers might have known that all the activities happening on social media, including hate comments, will happen. But why did they still make these technologies and keep on creating new platforms? Because technology itself is not harmful. Whether or not the technology is harmful is up to people who use and build technology, like us. User's responsibility is simple, users should do what is morally and ethically right. The best would be all the users being responsible, but 3.6 billion users worldwide are not all responsible. However, engineers can make people responsible because they have control over the technology. This is why professional responsibility is more important than the user's responsibility.

# Professional Responsibility

**Recently many social media platforms have worked hard to protect their users from getting hate comments.**

[**On January 2019, Instagram introduces two features** (click for more information)](https://fossbytes.com/instagram-asks-rethink-hate-comments-restrict-feature/).
<br/>
**First** feature is making users rethink before they post. The way this feature works is pretty simple. AI will read the comment after the user clicks post, and if the comment contains words that might offend other users, it will ask the user question like "Are you sure you want to post this?". The purpose of asking this question is to make the user rethink the word choice. It is not simply just making the user reconsider, but also let users aware that this comment is not ethically accepted and forces users to not post it [4].
<br/>
**Second** is the Restrict feature. This feature is similar to the Blocking feature but slightly different in the way that it gives you flexible options. Restrict feature allows you to restrict a user on Instagram. Once the user is restricted the user's activities will be only visible to the person who restricted the user and he/she has options to be visible in public or not. This prevents other users from contact exposure to hate comment and also protect the user who got the comment [4].
<br/>

[**On February 2019, YouTube updated their actions relate to the safety of minors** (click for more information)](https://youtube-creators.googleblog.com/2019/02more-updates-on-our-actions-related-to.html)
<br/>
YouTube originally had the option to disable comments on video but this was done by users who do not want people to leave comments on their video. This update automatically disables comments on video featuring minors, mostly refer to children. AI will analyze the video and if it detects children or minors in the video, it will automatically disable comments on that video [5]. This protects minors from getting attacked by hate comments.
<br/>

[**On February 2020, Naver banned comments on entertainment news** (click for more information)](http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20200220000937)
<br/>
Naver, South Korea's largest web portal, banned comments on entertainment news after Sulli and Hara committing suicide after suffering from hate comments [6]. This is not an advanced feature using AI or other technology like Instagram or YouTube did and many of the users criticize Naver for taking action slowly. But this change is certainly a movement to protect people who are suffering from hate comments.
<br/>

A lot of social media platforms are trying to protect their users and be responsible for their product and changes are making small differences. But more and more people will be using social media and engineers need to come up with more specific solutions.