---
order: 4
path: "/how-to-be-reponsible/"
title: "How to be responsible"
subtitle: "Suggsted solution for engineers"
intro: ""
---

# Neutralization and Gender

>**Neutralization:**<br/>
>"the deviant behavior can be justified as good"<br/>
><cite>Lowry, P. B.</cite>

In research, the relationship between neutralization and posting malicious comments on social media were studied and have proved that neutralization makes users post more hate comments. Thus, people who get neutralized easily have a higher possibility of posting malicious comments[7]. 

According to the study, males tend to be more affected by neutralization, get easily neutralizes, so they easily justify posting hate comments as good than females do [7]. However, this does not mean that all male users will post hate comments, so regulating male users can be discrimination.

# Online environment
According to the same research, the online environment also accelerates hate comments on social media [7].

**Anonymity**
<br/>
First, anonymity makes users post more hate comments. People think they are completely anonymous on social media and justify that posting hate comments is fine because others do not know who left comments [7]. So what I suggest regulation on anonymity. A lot of social media is not anonymous, people put their personal information, but they can still fake their identity.
<br/>
Engineers can strongly regulate users and make sure all the users are not anonymous. One way is verifying the identity. In South Korea, to make an account for a website or social media, the person has to verify their identity using their phone number. It does not have to be this exact way, but the point of this solution is verifying the user's real identity.

**Lack of Sense of Social Reality**
Second, lacking the sense of social reality is also a problem for hate comments. People said they are lacking a sense of social reality on social media, which means that they do not feel humanity or any feelings [7]. So they cannot consider how others might think after getting hate comments.
<br/>
 People spend a lot of time looking at the phone using social media and that might be why people lose the sense of social reality. I suggest engineers to simply add a warning on social media saying that **you are communicating with real person**. In the United State, to prevent people from getting addicted to the game, video games include materials that tell the player that they are in a video game world not in the real world. Thus, just telling the users that your social media is not a robot but a place to communicate with other people that exist might give them some sense of social reality.